
Important concepts of opencv

- Reading an image
	- `cv2.imread('path')`
	- `cv2.imshow('windrow name', image)`
	- `cv2.waitKey(0)` -> how many time hold the windrow
	- `cv2.destroyAllWindows()` -> it is for removing and deleteing gui  and memory.
	- `cv2.imwrite('file name', image)` -> for saving the image
	- `cv2.rotate(image-path,cv2.cv2.ROTATE_90_CLOCKWIE)` -> rotating  image 
	- `cv2.resize(img,(width,heigth))` -> image resize(width and height pass by pixel)

- extracting the RGB values of a pixel
	- `color space` 
		- RGB(Red, Green, Blue)
		- CMYK(Cyan, Magenta, Yellow, Black)
		- HSV(Hue,Saturation, Value)
	-  There are more than 150 color space conversion methods available in opencv
		-  `cv2.cvtColor(src,cv2.COLOR_BGR2RGB)`
		- `cv2.cvtColor(src, cv2.COLOR_BGR2GRAY`
		-  etc.
- extracting the region of interest(ROI)
- resizing the image
- Rotating the image
- draw a rectangle
- displaying text.


### Arithmetic Operations
- addition
	- `cv2.add()` 
	-  `cv2.addWeighted()`
- subtraction
	- `cv2.subtract()`
- AND
- OR
- NOT
- XOR


### Image translation
Translation refers to the rectilinear shift of an object. an image from one location to another
if we know the amount of shift in horizontal and the vertical direction. say(tx,ty) then we can make a transformation matrix. Now we can use the `cv2.wrapAffine()` function to implementation the translations.  this function requires a `2X3` array. the numpy array should be of float type.


```python
import cv2
import numpy as np

image = cv2.imread('geeks.png')

# Store height and width of the image
height, width = image.shape[:2]

quarter_height, quarter_width = height / 4, width / 4

T = np.float32([[1, 0, quarter_width], [0, 1, quarter_height]])

# We use warpAffine to transform
# the image using the matrix, T
img_translation = cv2.warpAffine(image, T, (width, height))

cv2.imshow('Translation', img_translation)
cv2.waitKey(0)

cv2.destroyAllWindows()
```


### Edge Detection:
The process of image detection involves sharp edges in the image. this edge detection is essential in the context of image recognition or object localization/detection. There are several algorithms for detecting edges due to its wide applicability. we'll be using one such algorithm known as Candy Edge Detection.



